For this skill,
you will need a gait belt,
a pair of shoes, a chair
gloves and hand sanitizer.
Be familiar with the residents care plan.
Knock on the door, greet the resident,
addressing them by their preferred name.
And introduce yourself.
Wash your hands or use hand sanitizer
and don gloves.
Explain to the resident
that you will be assisting them
to ambulate using a gait belt.
Check that the resident is wearing
proper non-skid footwear and ask
if they have any injuries or sensitivities
that you need to be aware of.
Slide the gait belt under the residents
arm around the back of their waist
and under the other arm to the front
Secure the gait belt in the front
so that only your fingers
and flat palm fit under the belt.
Check the
belt to ensure that it is over
the clothes and does not catch skin
or skin folds and that the buckle
is not uncomfortable for the resident.
Discuss a cue with the resident
to assist them to stand such
as counting to three.
Bend your knees, stagger your feet,
bend at the waist and keep your back
straight to maintain proper body alignment
to protect your back.
Holding the belt on each side.
Count to three
and assist the resident to stand.
Check in with how the resident feels upon
standing.
Ask if they have any lightheadedness
dizziness or weakness.
Slide
your hand around the back of the gait belt
maintaining contact
and stand to the side of the resident
and slightly behind them
while supporting the gate belt.
Begin to ambulate with the resident.
Ask how the resident
feels during ambulation.
Walk the resident at least ten steps.
Sliding your hands back
around to the sides of the belt, position
the resident in front of the chair.
Ask the patient
to back up until they feel the chair
behind their knees.
Instruct
the patient to reach for the armrests
and sit their hips back into the chair
using proper body mechanics.
Assist them back into the chair.
Check the patient's
positioning in the chair.
Ensure that their hips
are all the way back against the seat.
Unfasten the gait belt and gently
remove it from behind the patient.
Ensure you are not dragging the belt
across the patient as this can cause
skin tears.
Ask the patient if they are comfortable
and provide them with their call light.
Remove your gloves
and wash your hands.
Here are a few things to keep in mind
when providing care.
Always ask the resident
about their preferences.
Use standard precautions and infection
control measures.
Ask the resident about comfort or needs
during care and before care is completed,
and always promote the residents rights
and safety during care.